CIA 
Confidentiality --> Ensures that only the intended persons or recipients can access the data
Integrity --> aims to ensure that the data cannot be altered; moreover, we can detect any alteration of it occurs
Availability --> aims to ensure that the system or service is available when needed

DAD
Disclosure --> is the opposite of confidentiality. In other words, disclousre of confidential data would be an attack on confidentiality
Alteration --> is the opposite of integrity. For example, the integrity of a cheque is indispensable
Destruction/Denial --> is the opposite of Availability

Bell-LaPadula Model 
Aims to achieve confidentiality by specifying three rules
Simple security Property --> This property is referred to as "no read up"; it states that a subject at a lower security level cannot 
read an obkect at a higher security level. This rule prevents access to sensitive information above the authroized level
Star Security Property --> This property is referred to as "no write down"; it states that a subject at a higher security level cannot 
write to an object at a lower security level. This rule prevents the disclousre of sensitive informaiton to a subject of lower secutiy level
Discrentionary-Security Property --> this property uses an access matrix to allow read and write operation. 

Biba Model
The Biba Model aims to achieve integrity by specifying two main rules:

Simple Integrity Property: This property is referred to as “no read down”; a higher integrity subject should not read from a lower integrity object.
Star Integrity Property: This property is referred to as “no write up”; a lower integrity subject should not write to a higher integrity object.

Clark-Wilson Model
The Clark-Wilson Model also aims to achieve integrity by using the following concepts:

Constrained Data Item (CDI): This refers to the data type whose integrity we want to preserve.
Unconstrained Data Item (UDI): This refers to all data types beyond CDI, such as user and system input.
Transformation Procedures (TPs): These procedures are programmed operations, such as read and write, and should maintain the integrity of CDIs.
Integrity Verification Procedures (IVPs): These procedures check and ensure the validity of CDIs.








