If a a traffic is passes a firewall there should be some security to detect the activites of the connection that passed through the firewall and have already 
taken place. So, if an attacker successfully bypasses a firewall via a legitimate-looking connection and then performs any malicious activities inside the network, there
should be something to detect it timely. For this purpose, we have a security solution inside the network. This solution is known as intrusion Detection System

Deployment Modes
Host Intrusion Detection System (HIDS) --> Host-based IDS solutions are installed individually on the hosts and are responsible for only detecting potential security threats 
associated with that particular host. They provide detailed visibility of the host’s activities. However, host intrusion detection systems can be challenging to manage in 
large networks as they are resource-intensive and require management on each host.
Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) --> Network-based IDS solutions are crucial in detecting potentially malicious activities within the whole network, regardless of any 
specific hosts. They monitor the network traffic of all the hosts involved to detect suspicious activities. It provides a centralized view of all the detections inside the whole network.

Detection Modes
Signature-Based IDS --> Many attacks occur every day. Each attack has its unique pattern, which is known as a signature. These signatures are preserved by the IDS in their databases so that 
if the same attack happens in the future, it gets detected by its signature and reported to the security administrators for action. The stronger the signature database of the IDS is, the 
more efficiently it would detect known threats. However, the signature-based IDS is unable to detect zero-day attacks. Zero-day attacks have no prior signatures (patterns) and are not saved 
inside the IDS databases. Therefore, the signature-based IDS can only detect the attacks that happened previously, and its signatures (patterns) are saved inside the database. In the upcoming 
tasks, we will explore a signature-based IDS named Snort.
Anomaly-Based IDS --> This type of IDS first learns the normal behavior (baseline) of the network or system and performs detections if there is any deviation from the normal behavior. Anomaly-based 
IDS can also detect zero-day attacks because they don’t rely on the available signatures for the detections but detect abnormalities inside the network or system by comparing the current state with 
the normal behavior (baseline). However, this type of IDS may generate a lot of false positives (marking benign activities as malicious) because the nature of most legitimate programs matches the
malicious ones. Anomaly-based IDS would mark them malicious and believe anything behaving unusually is malicious. We can also reduce the false positives generated by anomaly-based IDS by fine-tuning 
it (manually defining the normal behavior in the IDS).
Hybrid IDS --> A hybrid IDS combines the detection methods of signature-based IDS and anomaly-based IDS to leverage the strengths of each approach. Some known threats may already have some signatures 
in the IDS database; in this case, the hybrid IDS would use the detection technique of the signature-based IDS. If it encounters a new threat, it can leverage the detection method of anomaly-based IDS.

Snort is one of the most widely used open-source IDS solutions developed in 1998. It uses signature-based and anomaly-based detections to identify known threats. These are defined in the rule files of the 
Snort tool. Several built-in rule files come pre-installed in this tool’s package. These built-in rule files contain a variety of known attack patterns. Snort’s built-in rules can detect a lot of malicious 
\traffic for you. However, you can configure Snort to detect specific types of network traffic that are not covered by the default rule files. You can create custom rules based on your requirements to detect 
specific traffic. You can also disable any built-in detection rules if they don’t point to harmful traffic for your system or network and define some custom rules instead. In the upcoming task, we will explore 
the built-in rules and make custom rules to detect specific traffic.


Mode	Description	Use Case
Packet sniffer mode	--> This mode reads and displays network packets without performing any analysis on them. The packet sniffer mode of Snort does not directly relate to IDS capabilities, but it can be helpful in network monitoring and troubleshooting. In some cases, system administrators might need to read the traffic flow without performing any detection to diagnose specific issues. In this case, they can utilize the packet sniffer mode of Snort. This mode allows you to display the network traffic on the console or even output it in a file.	
The network team observes some network performance issues. To diagnose the issue, they need detailed insights into the network traffic. For this purpose, they can utilize Snort’s packet sniffer mode.
Packet logging mode	--> Snort performs detection on the network traffic in real-time and displays the detections as alerts on the console for the security administrators to take action. However, in some cases, the network traffic needs to be logged for later analysis. The packet logging mode of Snort allows you to log the network traffic as a PCAP (standard packet capture format) file. This includes all the network traffic and any detections from it. Forensic investigators can use these Snort log files to perform the root cause analysis of previous attacks.	
The security team needs to initiate a forensic investigation of a network attack. They would need the traffic logs to perform the root cause analysis. The network traffic logged through Snort’s packet logging mode can help them.
Network Intrusion Detection System mode	--> Snort’s NIDS mode is the primary mode that monitors network traffic in real-time and applies its rule files to identify any match to the known attack patterns stored as signatures. If there is a match, it generates an alert. This mode provides the main functionality of an IDS solution.	
The security team must proactively monitor their network or systems to detect potential threats. They can leverage Snort’s NIDS mode to achieve this.






























