Layer 7	Application layer	Providing services and interfaces to applications	HTTP, FTP, DNS, POP3, SMTP, IMAP
Layer 6	Presentation layer	Data encoding, encryption, and compression	Unicode, MIME, JPEG, PNG, MPEG
Layer 5	Session layer	Establishing, maintaining, and synchronising sessions	NFS, RPC
Layer 4	Transport layer	End-to-end communication and data segmentation	UDP, TCP
Layer 3	Network layer	Logical addressing and routing between networks	IP, ICMP, IPSec
Layer 2	Data link layer	Reliable data transfer between adjacent nodes	Ethernet (802.3), WiFi (802.11)
Layer 1	Physical layer	Physical data transmission media	Electrical, optical, and wireless signals

DHCP(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) follows four steps: DIscover, Offer, Request, and Acknowledge (DORA)
DHCP Discover: The client broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER message seeking the local DHCP server if one exists.
DHCP Offer: The server responds with a DHCPOFFER message with an IP address available for the client to accept.
DHCP Request: The client responds with a DHCPREQUEST message to indicate that it has accepted the offered IP.
DHCP Acknowledge: The server responds with a DHCPACK message to confirm that the offered IP address is now assigned to this client.

Address Resolution Protocol(ARP) makes it possible to find MAC address of another device on the Ethernet. 
A host with the IP address 192.168.66.89 wants to communicate with another system with the IP address 192.168.66.1.
It sends an ARP Request asking the host with the IP address 192.168.66.1 to respond. THE ARP request is sent from the MAC 
address of the requester to the broadcast MAC address, ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff. The ARP reply arrived shortly afterwards, and the host
with the IP address 192.168.66.1 responded with its MAC address. From this point, the two hosts can exchange data link layer frames.
ARP is considered layer 2 because it deals with MAC addresses. Others would argue that it is part of layer 3 because it supports
IP operations. What is essential to know is that ARP allows the translation from layer 3 addressing to layer 2 addressing. 

Internet Control Message Protocl(ICMP) is mainly used for network diagnostics and error reporting. Two popular commands rely on ICMP,
and they are instrumental in network troubleshooting and network security.
Ping --> This command uses ICMP to test connectivity to a target system and measures the round-trip time(RTT). In other words, it can be used 
to learn that the target is alive and that its reply can reach out system.
Traceroute --> This command is called traceroute on linux and UNIX-like systems and tracert on MS windows system. It uses ICMP to discover
the route from your host to the target. 

OSPF(Open Shortest Path First) --> OSPF is a routing protcol that allows routers to share information about the network topology and calculate 
the most efficient paths for data transmission. It does this by having routers exchange updates about the state of their connected links and networks.
This way, each router has a complete map of th enetwork and can determine the best routes to reach any destination.

EIGRP(Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protcol) --> EIGRP is a Cisco proprietary routing protcol that combines aspects of different routing algorithms.
It allows routers to share information about the networks they can reach and the cost (like badwidth or delay) associated with those routes.
Routers then use this information to choose the most efficient paths for data transmission.

BGP(Border Gateway protcol) --> BGP os the primary routing protocol used on the Internet. It allows different networks (like those of Internet Service Providers)
to exchange routing information and establish paths for data to travel between these networks. BGP helps ensure data can be routed efficiently across the Internet, 
Even when travdersing multiple networks.

RIP(Routing Information Protocol) --> RIP is a simple routing protocol often used in small networks. Routers running RIP share information about the networks 
they can reach and number of hop (routers) required to get there. As a result, each router builds a routing table based on this information, choosing the routers with the 
fewest hops to reach each destination. 

NAT(Network Address Translation) --> Using one public IP address to provide Internet access to many provate Ip address. NAT must find a way to track 
ongoing connections. 


Protocol	Transport Protocol	Default Port Number
TELNET	TCP	23
DNS	UDP or TCP	53
HTTP	TCP	80
HTTPS	TCP	443
FTP	TCP	21
SMTP	TCP	25
POP3	TCP	110
IMAP	TCP	143

The insecure versions use the default TCP port numbers shown in the table below:

Protocol	Default Port Number
HTTP	80
SMTP	25
POP3	110
IMAP	143

The secure versions, i.e., over TLS, use the following TCP port numbers by default:

Protocol	Default Port Number
HTTPS	443
SMTPS	465 and 587
POP3S	995
IMAPS	993











