SIEM stands for Security Information and Event Management System. It is a tool that collects data from various 
endpoints/network devices across the network, stores them at a centralized place, and performs correlation on them. 

Host-Centric Log Sources 
These are log sources that capture events that occurred within or relatied to the host. Some log sources that generate host-centric logs 
are window event logs, stsmon, osquery, etc. Some examples of host centric logs are
A user accessing a file 
A user attempting to authenticate
A process execution activity 
A process adding/editing/deleting a registry key or value 
Powershell execution

Network-Centric log sources 
Network-related logs are generated when the hosts communicate with each other or access the internet to visit a website. Some 
network-based protocols are SSH, VPN, HTTP/s, FTP, etc. Examples:
SSH connection
A file being accessed via FTP 
Web traffic 
A user accessing comapny's resources through VPN
Network file sharing activity

Importance of SIEM 
All these devices generate hundreds of events per second, examining the imglogs on each device one by one incase of any incident 
can be a tedious task. That is one of the advantages of having a SIEM solution in place. It not only takes logs from various sources in realtime but also provides 
the ability to correlate between events, search through the logs, investigate incidents and respond promptly. Some key features:
Real-time log ingestion
Alerting against abnormal activities 
24/7 Monitoring and visibility 
Protection against the lastest threats through early detection
Data insights and visualization
Ability to investigate past incidents

Linux Workstation
/var/log/httpd : Contains HTTP Request  / Response and error logs.
/var/log/cron   : Events related to cron jobs are stored in this location.
/var/log/auth.log and /var/log/secure : Stores authentication related logs.
/var/log/kern : This file stores kernel related events.

SIEM is used to provide correlation on the collected data to detect threats. Once a threat is detected, or a certain 
threshold is crossed, an alert is raised. This alert enables the analysts to take suitable actions based on the investigation. SIEM
plays a importatn role in the cyber security domain and helps detect and protect against the lastest threats in a timely manner. It 
provides good visibility of what's happening within the network infrastructure. 

Some of the common capabilities of SIEM are:
Correlation between events from different log sources
Provide visibility on both Host-centric and Network-centric activities
Allow analysts to investigate the latest threats and timely response 
Hunt for threats that are not detected by the rules in place

SOC analyst responsibilities
SOC analyysts utilize SIEM solutions in order to have better visibility of what is happening within the network.
Some of their responsibilities are:
Monitoring and investigating
Identifying False positives 
Tuning Rules and which are causing the noise or false positive
Reporting and compliance 
Identifying blind spots in the network visibility and covering them.

SIEM tool get all the security-related logs ingested through agents, port forwarding, etc. Once the logs are ingested, SIEM looks for unwanted behavior 
or suspicious pattern within the logs with the help of the conditions set in the rules by the analysts. If the condition is met, 
a rule gets triggered, and the incident is investigated

Dashboard
Dashboards are the most important components of any SIEM. SIEM presents the data for analysis after being normalized and ingested. The summary of these 
analyses is presented in the form of actionable insights with the help of multiple dashboards. Each SIEM solution comes with some default dashboards and provides 
an option for custom dashboard creation. Some of the information that can be found on the dashboard are:
Alert highlights 
System Notification 
Health alert
List of failed login attempts 
Events ingested count 
Rules triggered
Top Domains visited

Correlation Rules
Correlation rules play an important role in the timely detection of threats allowing analysts to take action on time. Correlation rules are pretty much logical expressions set to be triggered. A few examples of correlation rules are:

If a User gets 5 failed Login Attempts in 10 seconds - Raise an alert for Multiple Failed Login Attempts
If login is successful after multiple failed login attempts - Raise an alert for Successful Login After multiple Login Attempts
A rule is set to alert every time a user plugs in a USB (Useful if USB is restricted as per the company policy)
If outbound traffic is > 25 MB - Raise an alert to potential Data exfiltration Attempt (Usually, it depends on the company policy)

Alert Investigation
When monitoring SIEM, analysts spend most of their time on dashboards as it displays various key details about the network in a very summarized way. Once an alert is triggered, the events/flows associated with the alert are examined, and the rule is checked to see which conditions are met. Based on the investigation, the analyst determines if it's a True or False positive. Some of the actions that are performed after the analysis are:

Alert is False Alarm. It may require tuning the rule to avoid similar False positives from occurring again.
Alert is True Positive. Perform further investigation.
Contact the asset owner to inquire about the activity.
Suspicious activity is confirmed. Isolate the infected host.
Block the suspicious IP.


